# kernDisc

`kerndisc` is a library for automated kernel structure discovery in **univariate** data. It aims to find the best composition of kernels in order to represent a time series.

It is heavily inspired by the PhD thesis of David Duvenaud et al., and the [automated statistician](https://github.com/jamesrobertlloyd/gp-structure-search) project.

It aims to be a spec'd down, minimal and pythonic version of their project. In the future it is planned to bring down evaluation cost to `O(n^2)`, by employing upper, lower bound estimation as introduced by [Kim et al.](https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02524).

## Usage

`kerndisc` can be used in the following way:

```python
> from kerndisc import discover
> k = discover(X, Y)
```

For scoring the computers CPU cores are used. By default only one core is used, setting the environment variable `CORES=n` results in `n` cores being used, giving a significant speedup. Custom metrics can be defined.

To populate the search space, i.e., the possible combinations of kernels that are explored, `kerndisc` uses a grammar from `kerndisc.expansion.grammars`.

It is also possible to define your own grammar for discovery and search space population. 

### Defining your own Metric

A new metric can be implemented in the `kerndisc.evaluation.scoring._metrics` module, afterwards it can be imported and added to the `_METRICS` dictionary in the packages `__init__`. Then it can be selected for training by setting the environment variable `METRIC` to its name.

All metrics MUST be minimization problems, i.e., be better when lower.

### Defining your own Grammar

To define a new grammar, please create a new module in `kerndisc.expansion.grammars` called `_grammar_*.py`. This new module MUST offer:

* `parser`: A method which returns the grammars parser.
* `KernelTransformer`: A transformer class which transforms an `AST` generated by the modules parser into a kernel.
* `extender`: A method which takes a representation of the kernel that the `parser` understands (a kernel expression)
  and applies all possible one step alterations as permitted by grammar to it, then returns those.

It is advised to use the `lark-parser` to define new grammars, as it is the one used by this project.

Once your custom grammar is created, you can select it by adding it to the `GRAMMAR` dictionary in `kerndisc.expansion.grammars.__init__.py` and then setting the environment variable `GRAMMAR` to your grammars name.

See:
* `kerndisc.expansion.grammars.__init__.py` for general concept and description,
* `kerndisc.expansion.grammars._grammar_duvenaud.py` for an example of a grammar.


## Installation

```python
# TODO: Create installation text/package.
```

## Development

`pipenv` is used for development. Please install it via `pip` if necessary. Usage:

```
> git clone https://github.com/BracketJohn/kernDisc
> cd kernDisc
> pipenv install --dev
> pipenv shell
```

This will install all necessary packages, create a new virtual environment and enter it. From there one can start to develop and test.

### Testing

Tests can be executed by running the following:
```
> pytest
```

Depending on your environment, it might be necessary to do this in a `pipenv shell`.
